---
arc: 7
title: Algorand Wallet Post Transactions API
description: API function to Post Signed Transactions to the network.
author: DanBurton (@DanBurton)
discussions-to: https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/issues/52
status: Deprecated
sidebar:
  label: arc-0007
  badge:
    text: Deprecated
    variant: danger
type: Standards Track
category: Interface
created: 2021-08-09
superseded-by:
---
## Abstract

A function, `postTxns`, which accepts an array of `SignedTransaction`s, and posts them to the network.

## Specification

The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as described in <a href="https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt">RFC-2119</a>.

> Comments like this are non-normative.

This ARC uses interchangeably the terms "throw an error" and "reject a promise with an error".

### Interface `PostTxnsFunction`

```ts
export type TxnID = string;
export type SignedTxnStr = string;

export type PostTxnsFunction = (
  stxns: SignedTxnStr[],
) => Promise<PostTxnsResult>;

export interface PostTxnsResult {
  txnIDs: TxnID[];
}

export interface PostTxnsError extends Error {
  code: number;
  data?: any;
  successTxnIDs: (TxnID | null)[];
}
```

A `PostTxnsFunction` with input argument `stxns:string[]` and promised return value `ret:PostTxnsResult`:
* expects `stxns` to be in the correct string format as specified by `SignedTxnStr` (defined below).
* **MUST**, if successful, return an object `ret` such that `ret.txID` is in the correct string format as specified by `TxID`.

> The use of `txID` instead of `txnID` is to follow the standard name for the transaction ID.

### String specification: `SignedTxnStr`

Defined as in [ARC-0001](/standards/arcs/arc-0001#interface-signedtxnstr):

> [`SignedTxnStr` is] the base64 encoding of the canonical msgpack encoding of the `SignedTxn` corresponding object, as defined in the <a href="https://github.com/algorandfoundation/specs">Algorand specs</a>.

### String specification: `TxnID`

A `TxnID` is a 52-character base32 string (without padding) corresponding to a 32-byte string.
For example: `H2KKVITXKWL2VBZBWNHSYNU3DBLYBXQAVPFPXBCJ6ZZDVXQPSRTQ`.

### Error standard

`PostTxnsError` follows the same rules as `SignTxnsError` from [ARC-0001](/standards/arcs/arc-0001#error-interface-signtxnserror) and uses the same status codes as well as the following status codes:


| Status Code | Name | Description |
| ----------- | ---- | ----------- |
| 4400 | Failure Sending Some Transactions | Some transactions were not sent properly. |

### Semantic requirements

Regarding a call to `postTxns(stxns)` with promised return value `ret`:

* `postTxns` **MAY** assume that `stxns` is an array of valid `SignedTxnStr` strings that represent correctly signed transactions such that:
  * Either all transaction belong to the same group of transactions and are in the correct order. In other words, either `stxns` is an array of a single transaction with a zero group ID (`txn.Group`), or `stxns` is an array of one or more transactions with the *same* non-zero group ID. The function **MUST** reject if the transactions do not match their group ID. (The caller must provide the transactions in the order defined by the group ID.)
  >An early draft of this ARC required that the size of a group of transactions must be greater than 1 but, since the Algorand protocol supports groups of size 1, this requirement had been changed so dApps don't have to have special cases for single transactions and can always send a group to the wallet.
  * Or `stxns` is a concatenation of arrays satisfying the above.
* `postTxns` **MUST** attempt to post all transactions together.  With the `algod` v2 API, this implies splitting the transactions into groups and making an API call per transaction group. `postTxns` **SHOULD NOT** wait after each transaction group but post all of them without pause in-between.
* `postTxns` **MAY** ask the user whether they approve posting those transactions.
  > A dApp can always post transactions itself without the help of `postTxns` when a public network is used.
  > However, when a private network is used, a dApp may need `postTxns`, and in this case, asking the user's approval can make sense.
  > Another such use case is when the user uses a specific trusted node that has some legal restrictions.
* `postTxns` **MUST** wait for confirmation that the transactions are finalized.
  > TODO: Decide whether to add an optional flag to not wait for that.
* If successful, `postTxns` **MUST** resolve the returned promise with the list of transaction IDs `txnIDs` of the posted transactions `stxn`.
* If unsuccessful, `postTxns` **MUST** reject the promise with an error `err` of type `PostTxnsError` such that:
  * `err.code=4400` if there was a failure sending the transactions or a code as specified in [ARC-0001](/standards/arcs/arc-0001#error-standards) if the user or function disallowed posting the transactions.
  * `err.message` **SHOULD** describe what went wrong in as much detail as possible.
  * `err.successTxnIDs` **MUST** be an array such that `err.successTxnID[i]` is the transaction ID of `stxns[i]` if `stxns[i]` was successfully committed to the blockchain, and `null` otherwise.

### Security considerations

In case the wallet uses an API service that is secret or provided by the user, the wallet **MUST** ensure that the URL of the service and the potential tokens/headers are not leaked to the dApp.

> Leakage may happen by accidentally including too much information in responses or errors returned by the various methods. For example, if the Node.JS superagent library is used without filtering errors and responses, errors and responses may include the request object, which includes the potentially secret API service URL / secret token headers.

## Rationale

This API allows DApps to use a user's preferred connection in order to submit transactions to the network.

The user may wish to use a specific trusted node, or a particular paid service with their own secret token. This API protects the user's secrets by not exposing connection details to the DApp.

## Security Considerations

None.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via <a href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">CCO</a>.
