---
arc: 83
title: xGov Council - Application Process
description: How to run for an xGov Council seat.
author: Stéphane Barroso (@SudoWeezy), Adriana Belotti, Michele Treccani
discussions-to: https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/issues/338
status: Living
sidebar:
  label: arc-0083
  badge:
    text: Living
    variant: tip
type: Meta
sub-category: General
created: 2025-03-12
---
## Abstract

The goal of this ARC is to clearly define the process for running for an xGov Council seat.

## Specification

The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as described in <a href="https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt">RFC-2119</a>.

### How to apply

In order to apply, a pull request needs to be created on the following repository: <a href="https://github.com/algorandfoundation/xGov">xGov Council</a>.

Candidates must explain why they are applying to become an xGov Council member, their motivation for participating in the review process, and how their involvement can contribute to the Algorand ecosystem.

- Follow the <a href="https://github.com/algorandfoundation/xGov/blob/main/README.md">Rules</a> of the xGov Council Repository.

- Follow the [template form provided](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/main/assets/arc-0083/TemplateForm.md), complete all sections, and submit your application using the following file format: `Council/xgov_council-<id>.md`.

#### Header Preamble

The `id` field is unique and incremented for each new submission. (The id should match the file name, for `id: 1`, the related file is `xgov_council-1.md`)

The `author` field must include the candidate's full name and their GitHub username in parentheses.
> Example: Jane Doe (@janedoe)

The `email` field must include a valid email address where the candidate can be contacted regarding the KYC (Know Your Customer) process.

The `address` field represents an Algorand wallet address. This address will be used for verification or any token distribution if applicable.

The `status` field indicates the current status of the submission:
- `Draft`: In Pull request stage but not ready to be merged.
- `Final`: In Pull request stage and ready to be merged.
- `Elected`: The candidate has been elected.
- `Not Elected`: The candidate has not been selected.

### Timeline

- Applications will open 4-6 weeks before the election. A call for applications will be posted on the <a href="https://forum.algorand.org/">Algorand Forum</a>.

### xGov Council Duties and Powers

#### Eligibility Criteria

- Any Algorand holder, including xGovs, with Algorand technical expertise and/or a strong reputation can run for the council.
- Candidates must disclose their real name, have an identified Algorand address, and undergo the KYC process with the Algorand Foundation.

#### Duties

- Review and understand the terms and conditions of the program.
- Evaluate proposals to check compliance with terms and conditions, provide general guidance, and outline benefits or issues to help kick off the proposal discussion.
- Hold public discussions about the proposals review process above.

#### Powers

- Once a proposal passes, the xGov council can block it ONLY if it doesn’t comply with the terms and conditions.
- Expel fellow council members for misconduct by a supermajority vote of at least 85%.
- Also, by a majority vote, block fellow council members’ remuneration if they are not performing their duties.

## Rationale

The xGov Council is a fundamental component of the xGov Program, tasked with reviewing proposals.
A structured, transparent application process ensures that only qualified and committed individuals are elected to the Council.

### Governance measures related to the xGov Council

- <a href="https://governance.algorand.foundation/governance-period-13/period-13-voting-session-1">Governance Period 13</a>.
- <a href="https://governance.algorand.foundation/governance-period-14/period-14-voting-session-1">Governance Period 14</a>.

## Security Considerations

### Disclaimer jurisdictions and exclusions

To be eligible to apply for the xGov council, the applicant must not be a resident of, or located in, the following jurisdictions: Cuba, Iran, North Korea and the Crimea, Donetsk, and Luhansk regions of Ukraine, Syria, Russia, and Belarus.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via <a href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">CCO</a>.
