---
arc: 60
title: Algorand Wallet Structured Arbitrary Data Signing API
description: API function fot signing structured arbitrary data
author: Stefano De Angelis (@deanstef)
discussions-to:  https://forum.algorand.org/t/wallet-council-breakoutgroup-byte-signing/11442
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Interface
created: 2024-02-28
requires:  ARC-1.
---

# Algorand Wallet Structured Arbitrary Data Signing API

> This ARC is inspired by <a href="https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/blob/main/ARCs/arc-0001.md">ARC-1</a>.

## Abstract

This ARC defines a standardized API designed for wallets to sign structured arbitrary data that are not Algorand transactions. This document also provides specific security constraints to reduce the risk of users being tricked to sign unexpected or malicious data.

## Motivation

Signing data is a common and critical operation. Users may need to sign data for multiple reasons (e.g. delegate signatures, DIDs, signing documents, authentication), and use different signing approaches (e.g. multisignatures or Hierarchical Deterministic derived keys).

Algorand wallets need a standard approach to byte signing to unlock self-custodial services and protect users from malicious signing workflows.

This ARC provides a standard API for bytes signing. The API encodes structured byte arrays being signed relying on standard JSON schemas. It requires wallets to validate the signing input, notify users about what they are signing and warn them in case of critical signing operations.

## Specification

The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as described in <a href="https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt">RFC-2119</a>.

> Comments like this are non-normative

### Overview

> This section is non-normative

Signatures of bytes are processed with the `signData(arbData, metadata)` function. It requires a non-empty list of structured `arbData` and `metadata` objects.

A `StdSignData` object represents structured arbitrary data that must be signed. Those data include a field `data` that is an array of bytes and a field `signers` for the signing keys.

A `StdSignMetadata` object describes the signature scope and the type of data being signed, including their encoding and the JSON schema.

`data` is structured according to a JSON Schema provided with the metadata.

There are two possible use cases:

1. Sign data with one signer that the wallet knows. For example:

```json
{
  "data": "/{.../}",
  "signers": ["xxxx"]
}
{
  "scope": "ARBITRARY",
  "schema": "...",
  "message": "These are just arbitrary bytes",
  "encoding": "..."
}
```

2. Sign data with a secondary public key that the wallet knows (recalling the Algorand Rekey) or a multisig address derived by two or more public keys that the wallet knows (recalling the Algorand MultiSig), or a hierarchical deterministic (HD) wallet. For example:

```json
{
  "data": "/{.../}",
  "signers": ...,
  "authAddr": "xxxx",
  "msig": {
    "version": 1,
    "threshold": 2,
    "addrs": [
      "xxxxxx",
      "xxxxxx",
      "xxxxxx"
    ]
  },
  "hdPath": {
    "purpose": 44,
    "coinType": 0,
    "account": 0,
    "change": 0,
    "addrIdx": 0
  }
}
{
  "scope": "ARBITRARY",
  "schema": "...",
  "message": "These are just arbitrary bytes",
  "encoding": "..."
}
```

### Interfaces

> Interfaces are defined in TypeScript. All the objects that are defined are valid JSON objects.

[ARC-60](./arc-0060.md) uses interchangeably the terms "throw an error" and "reject a promise with an error".

#### **Interface `SignDataFunction`**

A wallet function `signData` that signs arbitrary data is defined by the interface:

```tsx
export type SignDataFunction = {
    arbData: StdSignData[],
    metadata: StdSignMetadata[],
}
    => Promise<(SignedData | null)[]>;
```

- `arbData` is a non-empty array of `StdSigData` objects (defined below).
- `metadata` is a non-empty array of `StdSignMetadata` objects (defined below) that provide additional information on the data being signed.

The `signData` function returns a list of `SignedData` objects or, in case of error, rejects the promise with an error object `SignDataError`.

#### Interface `HDWalletMetadata`

An `HDWalletMetadata` specifies the derivation path parameters to derive the keys of an HD wallet from the seed.

> HD derivation levels originally from  <a href="https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki">BIP-44</a>.

```tsx
export interface HDWalletMetadata {
    /**
    * HD Wallet purpose value. First derivation path level. 
    * Hardened derivation is used.
    */
    purpose: number,

    /**
    * HD Wallet coin type value. Second derivation path level.
    * Hardened derivation is used.
    */
    coinType: number,

    /**
    * HD Wallet account number. Third derivation path level.
    * Hardened derivation is used.
    */
    account: number,

    /**
    * HD Wallet change value. Fourth derivation path level.
    * Public derivation is used.
    */
    change: number,

    /**
    * HD Wallet address index value. Fifth derivation path level.
    * Public derivation is used.
    */
    addrIdx: number,
}
```

- `purpose` **SHOULD** be set to `44’` for blockchain accounts.
- `coinType` indicate a derivation subtree for a specific cryptocurrency. It **MUST** be set to `283’` for ALGO according to <a href="https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/blob/master/slip-0044.md">SLIP-44</a> registered coin types.

The apostrophe in the numbering convention indicates that hardened derivation is used.

#### Interface `StdData`

The arbitrary data **MUST** be represented as a canonicalized JSON object in accordance with <a href="https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8785">RFC 8785</a>.

```tsx
export type StdData = string;
```

The `StdData` must be validated with respect the JSON schema provided with `metadata` (defined below). It cannot be a valid Algorand transaction therefore **MUST NOT** be prepended with a known domain separator `TX` or `TG`.

> Algorand domain separators can be found in the <a href="https://github.com/algorandfoundation/specs/blob/master/dev/crypto.md#domain-separation">Algorand specs</a> and in the <a href="https://github.com/algorand/go-algorand/blob/master/protocol/hash.go#L21">Go type HashID</a>.

#### Interface `Ed25519Pk`

An `Ed25519Pk` object is a 32-byte public key, point of the ed25519 elliptic curve. It is base64 encoded in accordance with <a href="https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc7468.txt">RFC-7468</a>. The key is not transformed into an Algorand address.

```tsx
export type Ed25519Pk = string;
```

> The transformation from a public key to a standard Algorand address is left to the implementation, and it is detailed in the <a href="https://developer.algorand.org/docs/get-details/accounts/#transformation-public-key-to-algorand-address">Public Key to Algorand Address</a> section of the developer portal.

#### Interface `SignedDataStr`

`SignedDataStr` is the produced 64-byte array Ed25519 digital signature of the `StdData` object.

```tsx
export type SignedDataStr = string;
```

#### Interface `SignedData`

A `SignedData` object is a list of `SignedDataStr` representing the signed data. The list must contain all the signatures in case of a multisig.

```tsx
export type SignedData = SignedDataStr[];
```

#### Interface `StdSignData`

A `StdSignData` object represents a structured byte array of data to be signed by a wallet.

```tsx
export interface StdSignData {
    /**
    * The structured arbitrary data to be signed.
    */
    data: StdData;
    
    /**
    * A non-empty list of ed25519 public keys that must sign the data.
    */
    signers: Ed25519Pk[];

    /**
    * Optional delegated public key used to sign data on behalf of a signer.
    * It can be used to sign data with rekeyed Algorand accounts.
    */
    authAddr?: Ed25519Pk;

    /**
    * Optional multisig metadata used to sign the data.
    */
    msig?: MultisigMetadata;

    /**
    * Optional HD wallet metadata used to derive
    * the public key used to sign the data.
    */
    hdPath?: HDWalletMetadata
}
```

The `msig` object is defined in <a href="https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/blob/main/ARCs/arc-0001.md">ARC-1</a> and it specifies the metadata of an Algorand multisig address.

This ARC assumes the `msig.addrs` to be a list of `Ed25519Pk` non transformed into an Algorand Address.

> From <a href="https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/blob/main/ARCs/arc-0001.md">ARC-1</a> an `AlgorandAddress` is a transformed ed25519 public key represented by a 58-character base32 string that includes a checksum.

#### Enum `ScopeType`

The `ScopeType` enumerates constant strings with the scope of a signing action.

This ARC introduces only one scope for signing arbitrary bytes.

| ScopeType | Description |
| --- | --- |
| ARBITRARY | Signature of an array of arbitrary bytes. This is the most generic scope. |
| ... | ... |

Any extension of this ARC **SHOULD** adopt the `ScopeType` above, or introduce a new scope.

#### Interface `StdSignMetadata`

A `StdSignMetadata` object specifies metadata of a `StdSignData` that is being signed.

```tsx
export interface StdSignMetadata {
    /**
    * The scope value of the signing data request.
    */
    scope: ScopeType;

    /**
    * Canonical representation of the JSON schema for the signing data.
    */
    schema: string;

    /**
    * Optional message explaining the reason for the signature.
    */
    message?: string;

    /**
    * Optional encoding used to represent the signing data.
    */
    encoding?: string;
}
```

If the `encoding` is not specified, the `StdData` object should be UTF-8 encoded following the <a href="https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8785">RFC 8785</a>.

##### Signing Data JSON Schema

The JSON schema for the structured signing data. The `StdData` **MUST** be an object of this schema.

> The signing data JSON schema is inspired by the schema proposed with [EIP-712: Typed structured data hashing and signing proposal.](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-712)

```json
{
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "ARC60Domain": {
      "type": "string",
      "description": "The ARC-60 domain separator",
    },
    "bytes": {
      "type": "string",
      "description": "The bytes to be signed."
    },
  },
  "required": ["ARC60Domain", "data"],
  "additionalProperties": true
}
```

- The `ARC60Domain` object indicates the domain separator to be used for signing. It **SHOULD** be set to `"arc60"` for arbitrary bytes. Algorand transaction domain separators `TX` and `TG` **MUST** be forbidden.
- `additionalProperties` can be used to encode more complex arbitrary data.
- The `bytes` object is a string representing the array of bytes being signed. If the schema also provides additional structured objects, then it **SHOULD** indicate the SHA256 of all the canonicalized `additionalProperties`.

For example, a valid object with the additional property `extra` is:

```json
{
  "ARC60Domain" : "arc60",
  "bytes" : "c2a93c26377897293ecc44da03dddd9a72310bc2205793a5e23e898dd2e5f915", // sha256 of the canonicalized extra property
  "extraProperty": [
    {"extraField1" : "xxxx"},
    {"extraField2" : "yyyy"}
  ]
}
```

#### Error interface `SignDataError`

The `SignDataError` object extends the `SignTxnsError` defined in <a href="https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/blob/main/ARCs/arc-0001.md">ARC-1</a>.

```ts
export interface SignDataError extends Error {
  code: number;
  data?: any;
  failingSignData: (StdSigData | null)[];
}
```

`SignDataError` uses the same error codes of `SignTxnsError` as well as the following codes:

| Status Code | Name | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 4600 | Invalid scope | The scope of the signing action is not recognized by the wallet |
| 4601 | Invalid schema | The schema does not comply with ARC-60 requirements |
| 4602 | Invalid encoding | The canonical JSON cannot be decoded with the given encoding |

### Semantic Requirements

The call `signData(arbData, metadata)` **MUST** either return an array `ret` of signed data of the same length of `arbData` or reject the call throwing an error `err`.

> Following [ARC-1](https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/blob/main/ARCs/arc-0001.md) terminology, in this ARC the term **Rejecting** means throwing an error with `err.code=4300`.

Upon calling `signData(arbData, metadata)`:

- the length of `arbData` and `metadata` **MUST** be equal, otherwise the wallet **MUST** reject the call with a `4300` error.
- for each element `i` of `arbData`:
  - the corresponding metadata **MUST** be the element `metadata[i]`.
  - if the encoding `metadata[i].encoding` is present, it **MUST** be used to decode the `arbData[i].data`.
  - the decoded `arbData[i].data` **MUST** be validated with respect to the JSON schema `metadata[i].data`. If the validation fails, the call **MUST** be rejected with a `4300` error.
  - the wallet **MUST** ask users for signing confirmation. It **MUST** display the `metadata[i].message` if present, and the structured data being signed following to the `metadata[i].schema`.
    - if the user approves, the `arbData[i].data` **MUST** be signed by `arbData[i].signers` and `ret[i]` **MUST** be set to the corresponding `SignedDataStr`.
    - if the user rejects, the call **MUST** fail with error code `4001`.

Note that if any `arbData[i]` cannot be signed for any reason, the wallet **MUST** throw an error, such that

- `err.message` **SHOULD** indicate the reason of the error (e.g. specify that `arbData[i].data` is not a valid JSON object according to `metadata[i].schema`)
- `err.failingSignData` **SHOULD** return the `StdSignData` object that caused the error, otherwise `null`.

#### Semantic of `StdSignData`

- `data`:
  - it **MUST** be a valid `StdData` object, otherwise the wallet **MUST** reject.
  - the encoding **MUST** be equal to the value specified with `metadata` if any, otherwise it **MUST** be UTF-8.
  - if `data` cannot be decoded into a canonicalized JSON object, the wallet **MUST** throw a `4602` error.
  - if the decoded `data` does not comply with the JSON schema in `metadata`, the wallet **MUST** reject.
  - the `ARC60Domain` filed must be validated against forbidden values:
    - the wallet **MUST** reject if `ARC60Domain="TX"`.
    - the wallet **MUST** reject if `ARC60Domain="TG"`.
    - the wallet **MUST** reject if `metadata[i].scope=ARBITRARY` and `ARC60Domain` field is not set to "`arc60"`.

- `signers`:

  - it **MUST** be a non-empty list of valid `Ed25519Pk` object, otherwise the wallet **MUST** rejct.
  - the wallet **MAY** transform the `Ed25519Pk` into a valid `AlgorandAddress`.
  - if `signers` length is greater than 1:
    - the wallet **MUST** reject if `msig` is not specified.
    - the wallet **MUST** reject if `signers[0]` is not equal to the corresponding `msig`.
    > For example, in case of Algorand MultiSig the `msig` address resolves by hashing the MultiSig metadata and addresses, as detailed with the <a href="https://github.com/algorandfoundation/specs/blob/master/dev/ledger.md#multisignature">Multisignature specs</a>.
    - the wallet **MUST** reject if `signers` is not a subset of `msig.addrs`.
    - the wallet **MUST** try to return a `SignedData` object with all the `SignedDataStr` corresponding to `signers[i]` with `i>0`. If it cannot, it **SHOULD** throw a `4001` error.

  - if `signers` length is equal to 1:
    - if `msig` is specified, the wallet **MUST** reject.
    - if `authAddr` is specified the wallet **MUST** reject if `signers[0]` is not equal to `authAddr`.
    - if `hdPath` is specified, the wallet **MUST** reject if `signers[0]` is not equal to the derived public key with the `hdPath` parameters.
    - In all cases, the wallet **MUST** only try to return a `SignedData` object with one `SignedDataStr` for `signers[0]`.

- `authAddr`:
  - The wallet **MAY** not support this field. In that case, it **MUST** throw a `4200` error.
  - if specified, it **MUST** be a valid `Ed25519Pk` object, otherwise the wallet **MUST** reject.
  - if specified and supported, the wallet **MUST** try to return a `SignedData` object that includes a `SignedDataStr` for `authAddr`.

- `msig`:
  - The wallet **MAY** not support this field. In that case, it **MUST** throw a `4200` error.
  - if specified, it **MUST** be a valid `MultisigMetadata` object, otherwise the wallet **MUST** reject.
  - if specified and supported, the wallet **MUST** verify that the `msig` address corresponds to `signers[0]`.
  - If specified and supported, the wallet **MUST** try to return a `SignedData` object with all the `SignedDataStr` it can provide and that the wallet user agrees to sign with. If the wallet can produce more signatures than the requested threshold (`msig.threshold`), it **MAY** only provide a `SignedData` object with `msig.threshold` signatures. It is also possible that the wallet cannot provide at least `msig.threshold` signatures (either because the user prevented signing with some keys or because the wallet does not know enough keys). In that case, the returned `SignedData` object will contain only the signatures the wallet can produce. However, the wallet **MUST** provide at least one `SignedDataStr` or throw an error.

- `hdPath`:
  - The wallet **MAY** not support this field. In that case, it **MUST** throw a `4200` error.
  - if specified, it **MUST** be a valid `HDWalletMetadata` object, otherwise the wallet **MUST** reject.
  - if specified and supported, the wallet **MUST** verify that the derivation path resolves to a public key corresponding to `signers[0]`.
  - if specified and supported, the wallet **MUST** try to return a `SignedData` object that includes a `SignedDataStr` for `signers[0]`.

#### Semantic of `StdSignMetadata`

- `scope`:
  - it **MUST** be a valid `ScopeType` string, otherwise the wallet **MUST** throw a `4600` error.

- `schema`:
  - it **MUST** be a canonical JSON schema with the properties `ARC60Domain` and `bytes`, otherwise the wallet **MUST** throw a `4601` error.
  - the wallet **MAY** accept JSON schema with additional parameters. In that case, the wallet **MUST** verify that the `arbData[i].data` object contains all the parameters.

- `message`:
  - If specified, the message **SHOULD** be displayed to the user in plain text. The wallet **SHOULD** display the message `metadata[i].message` for any `arbData[i].data` being signed.

- `encoding`:
  - if specified, it **MUST** be used to encode the `arbData`.
  - the wallet **MUST** throw a `4602` error if the decoding fails with the given encoding value.

#### General Validation

Every input of the `signData(arbData, metadata)` must be validated.

The validation:

- **SHALL NOT** rely on TypeScript typing as this can be bypassed. Types **MUST** be manually verified.
- **SHALL NOT** assume that the provided `arbData.data` complies with the respective `metadata.schema` schema. The schema **MUST** be manually verified and all the required parameters **MUST** be checked.
- **SHALL NOT** assume that signatures are computed with the Algorand SDK `signBytes` function. There is no indirect validation on the passed `arbData` and `metadata` objects on that function. In general, the validation **SHALL NOT** rely on underlying SDKs to validate the inputs of an ARC-60 signing operation.

#### Display warnings

The wallet **MUST** display a warning message when the signing request (`ScopeType`) is related to a known Algorand action like signing a logic signature for delegation.

The wallet **MUST** display a warning when a custom JSON schema is provided and warn the user about any additional property being signed.

## Rationale

This API was designed to enable a secure and structured signing of arbitrary data with Algorand wallets. The API:

- Only uses types supported by standard JSON schema
- Is generic to _pure_ ed25519 key pairs and do not require keys manipulation
- Is compatible with different signing mechanisms including multisignature and hierarchical deterministic keys
- Is easy to extend with custom JSON schema to support future signing use cases (e.g. authentication)
- Is secure by design preventing malicious applications to trick users signing malicious messages or in worst cases approve malicious transactions.

This API was not designed to sign Algorand transactions or group of transactions (see ARC-1 instead).

## Backwards Compatibility

This ARC is not backward compatible with <a href="https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/blob/main/ARCs/arc-0047.md">ARC-47 Logic Signature Template</a>.

ARC-47 introduces the method `algo_templatedLsig` that takes a `LogicSignatureDescription` object and returns the signature of a logic signature program for delegation. 

Al alternative using the ARC-60 `signData()` is given below, where:

- `arbData` **MUST** specify:
  - the `LogicSignatureDescription` object as detailed in <a href="https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/blob/main/ARCs/arc-0047.md#interface">ARC-47</a>
  - the `values` of the templated variables and the `hash` of the expected program
- `metadata` **MUST** specify:
  - an extended ARC-60 compatible JSON schema
  - a new `ScopeType` for logic signatures signing, namely `LSIG`.

The extended schema can be found in the `../assets/arc-0060` folder at the file [lsig-schema.json](../assets/arc-0060/lsig-schema.json).

### Semantics for signing a Logic Signature

- if the `metadata[i].scope` corresponds to `LSIG`:
  - the `ARC60Domain` value of `arbData[i].data ` **MUST** be equal to the string `"Program"`, otherwise the wallet **MUST** reject.
  - the `bytes` value **MUST** be equal to the SHA256 of the additional parameters `LogicSignatureDescription`, `values`, and `hash`.
  - the wallet **MUST** follow the ARC-47 specification to compile the program from the received template. The result **MUST** be signed with `signers` and returned with `ret[i]` as the corresponding `SignedDataStr`.

## Test Cases

N/A

## Reference Implementation

> This section is non-normative.

### Sign arbitrary bytes

```ts
import algosdk from 'algosdk'
import Ajv from 'ajv'
import * as algorandWallet from './wallet'
import { canonicalize } from 'json-canonicalize'

enum TypeScope {
  ARBITRARY,
  LSIG,
}

const schema = {
  type: "object",
  properties: {
    ARC60Domain: {
      type: "string",
      description: "The ARC-60 domain separator",
    },
    data: {
      type: "string",
      description: "The bytes to be signed."
    },
  },
  required: ["ARC60Domain", "data"]
}

const signer: Ed25519Pk = "1Cz6hgjfllYajnodkJ2hCi+GiYF6ndMHMstH9tJOqlg="

const simple_data = {
  ARC60Domain : "arc60",
  bytes : "ARC-60 is awesome"
}

const arc60_data: StdData = canonicalize(simple_data)

const arbData: StdSignData = {
  data: arc60_data,
  signers: [signer]
}

const metadata: StdSignMetadata {
  scope: TypeScope.ARBITRARY,
  schema: canonicalize(schema),
  message: "This is a simple arbitrary bytes signing"
}

const signData: SignDataFunction = async ({ arbData, metadata }) => {
  try {
    const parsedSchema = JSON.parse(metadata.schema)
    const parsedData = JSON.parse(arbData.data)

    const validate = ajv.compile(parsedSchema)
    const isValid = validate(parsedData)

    if (isValid) {
      
    } else {
      return null
    }
  }
};
```

> Talk about algo sdk signbytes prepend MX message

## Security Considerations

Users signing bytes can be tricked to sign malicious messages being exposed to man-in-the-middle attacks.

Users must be aware of what they are signing and for what purpose. The wallet **MUST** always show the message being signed along with the scope of the signing action and the message (if any). The requested signer **MUST** be displayed as well.

> For example:"You are about to sign the bytes `ARC60 is awesome` with scope `ARBITRARY` and message `Sign arbitrary bytes` with the key `1Cz6hgjfllYajnodkJ2hCi+GiYF6ndMHMstH9tJOqlg=`".

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via <a href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">CCO</a>.
