---
arc: 85
title: Revocable Decentralized Recovery (ReDeRec)
description: Revocable Decentralized Recovery protocol utilizing rekeying and multisigs instead of sharing mnemonic shards.
author: Tasos Bitsios (@tasosbit)
discussions-to: https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/issues/344
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ARC
subcategory: Wallet
created: 2025-06-18
---

## Abstract
This ARC outlines a new approach to Decentralized Recovery which enables revocability. Instead of sharing private key shards with custodians, an Algorand account can be rekeyed to a specially crafted multisig so that the owner account can self-sign, and the recovery custodians can combine in a multisig threshold fashion (2/3, 3/4, etc) to help recover the account. Self-signing is enabled by repeating the owner account's key in the subsigners field, in order to satisfy the threshold requirement as a standalone signer. Revoking custodians is as simple as rekeying to another authorizer account.

## Motivation
Sharing private key shards for decentralized recovery purposes is a concern that is worth addressing. This ARC improves upon the irrevocable nature of "classic" decentralized recovery by introducing an "active-state" method to achieve the same result without the potential for private key compromise if enough shards are compromised over time.

## Specification
The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as described in <a href="https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt">RFC-2119</a>.

An active decentralized recovery signer account is a multi-signature composed the owner account and the "custodian" accounts.

- The Owner Account (OA) MUST be able to sign for transactions without requiring signatures from any other party.
- Custodian accounts (CAs) MUST be able to sign for transactions when enough signatures are presented to meet the recovery threshold.
- The recovery threshold (T) is the number of CA signatures required to recover an account.
- The OA is repeated in the multisig sub-signers group T times, in order to be able to self-sign.

Note: Algorand allows for a single-signature account to be rekeyed to a multisig wherein the single-sig is its own sub-signer, which enables users to use this pattern without requiring a new private key (and corresponding mnemonic to save.)

Example: Alice wants to add Bob, Eve and Steve as recovery custodians to her account. She wants any 2 of the 3 custodians to be able to help her recover her account.

Owner Account: `ALICE234..`

Custodians:
- `BOB345..`
- `EVE456..`
- `STEVE567..`

Threshold: 2

Multisig configuration:

```
{
    version: 1,
    threshold: 2,
    addrs: [
        "ALICE234..",
        "ALICE234..",
        "BOB345..",
        "EVE456..",
        "STEVE567..",
    ]
}
```

## Backwards Compatibility
This method requires a wallet that supports rekeying and multi-signature accounts. Beyond that on-chain compatibility should be 100%, as transaction signature schemes are transparent as far as Applications are concerned. Off-chain systems validating account ownership for "login" functionality must be able to support multi-sig accounts.

## Test Cases
TODO

## Reference Implementation
TODO

## Security Considerations
Note that when accounts are closed out (i.e. taken to a zero ALGO balance) their rekeying status reverts to the default, so users of active DeRec are RECOMMENDED to maintain a minimum balance requirement above the base account MBR (0.1 ALGO) as a safety precaution against accidental close-outs.

Availability of the custodian account private keys is not enforced in this standard. A periodic heartbeat mechanism could be built for CA subsigners to prove that their private keys are still available.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via <a href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">CCO</a>.
