---
arc: 0029
title: Algorand Standard Asset Parameters Conventions for Soul Bound NFTs
author:
- Lukas Kotol (@hathoriel)
  discussions-to: https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/pull/117
  status: Draft
  created: 2022-08-06
---

## Summary

This document introduces conventions for the parameters of Algorand Standard Assets (ASAs) for Soul Bound non-fungible tokens (NFTs).

## Abstract

A "Soul Bound NFT" is an Algorand Standard Asset (ASA) defined by configuration of parameters preventing
them to be transferred from an original address.

## Motivation
Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) are digital tokens on the blockchain network.
Each NFT has its unique token ID. This is just a number that identifies the token,
and no two NFTs minted from the same smart contract can have the same token ID.
This proves that every NFT is unique. NFTs can be traded or given away, which
means that they are not irreversibly tied to only one entity.

But imagine one who wants after completing a challenge to get honour or
status which is bounded to the person and certifying such a person has finished the challenge.
This scenario can be mapped to real-life achievements like obtaining a university degree,
winning a club competition or earning a professional certification.

Described use cases are also widely used in gaming.
In some MMORPG games, after slaying rare monsters, game characters get legendary items
which are bounded only to the hero who took part in monster destruction.
These legendary items are characterized by the fact that they cannot be sold
or traded with other players, which means they are "Soul Bounded" to the game character.
The consequence of binding items to the character is that other players could be sure their
owner had slain such a monster and it can give the slayer special status among other players.
Once players dont want to keep "Soul Bounded" items, they can trash them to permanently remove them from their account.

However, the ASA lacks the possibility of proving that the owner of the address finished some task, mission or job,
because the ASA can be transferred between addresses.

The Soul Bound NFTs defined by this ARC prevent ASA to be transferred and permanently binding NFTs to the owner's address.
This means that not only user cannot transfer ownership, but the minter also cannot withdraw/transfer/change ownership as well.
By introducing this as a standard users can confidently and consistently prove or certify
that a project, competition or event has been completed by themselves.

## Specification

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC
2119](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119).

### ASA Parameters Conventions

The ASA parameters of Soul Bound NFTs should follow the conventions for NFT tokens defined in [ARC-0003](https://arc.algorand.foundation/ARCs/arc-0003)
except for the following parameters:

* *Manager Address* (`m`): **MUST** be set to issuing address to establish provenance.
* *Clawback Address* (`c`): **MUST** be set empty, to indicate that clawback is not permitted.
* *Default Frozen* (`df`): **MUST** be _True_ to freeze holdings for the asset by default.
* *Freeze Address* (`f`): **MUST** be set to `""` or empty, to indicate that unfreezing is not permitted.

### Transaction Validation

### Inputs that Must Be Systematically Rejected

The ASA transaction validation of Soul Bound NFTs should follow the validation for Algorand Wallet Transaction Signing API defined in [ARC-0001](https://arc.algorand.foundation/ARCs/arc-0001)
except for the following parameters:
* Transaction Object Type AssetTransferTx with AssetCloseTo `AssetTransferTx.AssetCloseTo` with not empty value **MUST** be rejected
* Transaction Object Type PaymentTx with CloseRemainderTo `PaymentTx.CloseRemainderTo` with not empty value **MUST** be rejected

## Rationale

For a NFT token to be described as Soul Bound, it must be meet the following criteria:
1. Publicly verifiable
2. Non-fungible
3. Non-transferable

The Algorand blockchain provides the instruments for publicly verifiable transactions. The [ARC-0003](https://arc.algorand.foundation/ARCs/arc-0003)
sets the conventions for creating non-fungible tokens.
To make NFTs non-transferable, thereby becoming Soul Bound, the asset _Manager Address_, _Default Frozen_, _Clawback Address_, and _Freeze Address_
parameters must be modified as specified above.

## References

**Standards**
- [ARC-0001 Algorand Wallet Transaction Signing API](https://arc.algorand.foundation/ARCs/arc-0001)
- [ARC-0003 Algorand Standard Asset Parameters Conventions for Fungible and Non-Fungible Tokens](https://arc.algorand.foundation/ARCs/arc-0003)
- [RFC 2119 Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt)

**Articles & Discussions**
- [Decentralized Society: Finding Web3's Soul](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4105763)
- [Soulbound](https://vitalik.eth.limo/general/2022/01/26/soulbound.html)
- [What are Soulbound Tokens](https://dev.to/envoy_/what-are-soulbound-tokens-14lj)

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via
[CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).