---
arc: 7
title: Algorand Wallet Post Transactions API
status: Draft
---

# Algorand Wallet Post Transactions API

> This API is a draft.
> Some elements may change.

## Summary

An API for a function used to post transactions to the network.

## Abstract

A function, `postTxns`, which accepts an array of `SignedTransaction`s, and posts them to the network.

## Specification

### Interface `PostTxnsFunction`

```ts
export type PostTxnsFunction = (
  stxns: string[], // SignedTxnStr
) => Promise<PostTxnsResult>;

export interface PostTxnsResult {
  txId: string; // TxId
}
```

A `PostTxnsFunction` with input argument `stxns:string[]` and promised return value `ret:PostTxnsResult`:

* MAY expect `stxns` to be in the correct string format as specified by `SignedTxnStr`.
* MUST, if successful, return an object `ret` such that `ret.txId` is in the correct string format as specified by `TransactionId`

### String specification: `SignedTxnStr`

Quoting ARC-0001:

> [`SignedTxnStr` is] the base64 encoding of the canonical msgpack encoding of the `SignedTxn` corresponding object, as defined in the [Algorand specs](https://github.com/algorandfoundation/specs).

### String specification: `TxId`

A `TxId` is a 52-character base32 string.

### Semantic requirements

Regarding a call to `postTxns(stxns)` with promised return value `ret`:

* `postTxns` MAY assume that `stxns` are in the correct format as specified by `SignedTxnStr`.
* `postTxns` MUST attempt to post all transactions together.
* If successful, `postTxns` MUST resolve the returned promise with the `TxId` received from the network. (This SHOULD be the transaction ID for the first transaction in the group.)
* If unsuccessful, `postTxns` MUST reject the promise with an error. The error SHOULD describe what went wrong in as much detail as possible.

## Rationale

This API allows DApps to use a user's preferred connection in order to submit transactions to the network.

The user may wish to use a specific trusted node, or a particular paid service with their own secret token. This API protects the user's secrets by not exposing connection details to the DApp.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
