---
arc: <to be assigned>
title: Royalty Enforcement Specification 
description: An ARC to specify the methods and mechanisms to enforce Royalty payments as part of ASA transfers 
author: Cosimo Bassi (@cusma), Ben Guidarelli (@barnjamin), Steve Ferrigno (@nullun) 
discussions-to: <URL>
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category (*only required for Standards Track): Interface
created: 2022-02-16
requires: ARC-4
---

## Abstract

A specification to describe a mechanism to enforce [Royalty Payments](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royalty_payment) to a Royalty Collector given a policy describing the royalty shares.

## Motivation

This ARC is defined to provide a consistent set of asset configurations and ABI methods that, together, enable a royalty payment to a Royalty Collector.

An example may include some music rights where the label, the artist, and any investors have some assigned royalty percentage that should be enforced on transfer. During the sale transaction, the appropriate royalty payments should be included or the transaction must be rejected.

## Specification
The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.


[Royalty Policy](#royalty-policy) - The data structure that defines how royalties are dispersed

[Royalty Enforcer](#royalty-enforcer) - The contract that enforces the royalty payments given the Royalty Policy and performs transfers of the assets.

[Royalty Collector](#royalty-collector) - The account that collect the royalty and provides the royalty distribution logic. It could be set to a Single Signature, a Multi Signature, a Smart Signature or even another Smart Contract.

[Asset Subject to Royalties](#royalty-asset) - The asset that is subject to royalty payments on transfer

### Royalty Policy 

A Royalty Share consists of an `address` that should receive a Royalty payment and a `share` representing some share of the total payment amount. The Royalty Share MUST be specified in terms of [basis points](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basis_point) of the payment amount.

A Royalty Policy is specified as a Royalty Collector and associated Royalty weighting. Additionally, if any assets besides Algos are acceptable, 


```ts
type RoyaltyPolicy {
    share:              number,  // The share of the payment due, specified in basis points
    royalty_collector:  string,  // The address that should collect this share of the payment
    allowed_assets:     number[] // The list of asset ids that are acceptable for payment
}
```


### Royalty Enforcer

The Royalty Enforcer is an application that controls the transfer of ASAs subject to the Royalty Policy. 

This is accomplished by exposing an interface defined as a set of [ABI Methods](#abi-methods) allowing a grouped transaction call.

### Royalty Collector

The Royalty Collector is a generic account that could be set to a Single Signature, a Multi Signature, a Smart Signature or even to another Smart Contract. The Royalty Collector is then responsible for the royalty distribution logic, making the Royalty Enforcement Specification more general and composable.


### Royalty Asset 

The Royalty Asset is an ASA subject to royalty collection and MUST be created with the the appropriate roles and parameters. 

> Because the protocol does not allow updating a role after it's been deleted, if the creator thinks she may want to modify them later, they must be set to some non-zero address.


#### Asset Roles

The Clawback role MUST be set to the Application Address.

> Since the Royalty Enforcer relies on using the Clawback mechanism to perform the transfer the Clawback should NEVER be set to the zero address. 

The Freeze role MAY be set to zero OR the Application Address. 

> If the creator wants to allow an ASA to be Royalty Free after some conditions are met, it should be set to the Application Address 

The Manager role MAY be set to zero OR the Application Address.

> If the creator wants to update the Freeze role, this should be set to the application address

The Reserve role may be set to anything.

#### Asset Parameters

The DefaultFrozen address MUST be set to true.


### ABI Methods

#### Required


##### SetPolicy
    
    set_policy(royalty_asset: asset, royalty_shares: Tuple(address, uint64)[], allowed_asset_1: asset, allowed_asset_2: asset, allowed_asset_3: asset, allowed_asset_4: asset)

Sets the Royalty Policy for a given asset. 

The `asset` is the ASA id of the asset the policy is set for.

The `royalty_shares` are encoded as an array of `tuple(address, uint64)` that represents the Royalty Recipient and Royalty Share in basis points. The address of a Royalty Recipient SHOULD NOT be repeated, only the last occurrence of the address will be used for their Royalty Share. 

> The maximum number of Royalty Recipients is limited to the number of foreign accounts that may be passed from a grouped set of application call transactions.  As of go-algorand v3.4.0 this number is:
> 4 [max accts per call] * (16 [max calls per group] - 1 [transaction reserved for payment]) = 60

The `allowed_assets` list contains the ASA ids that are acceptable for payment. The contract logic MUST opt into the set of assets specified in order to accept the payments as part of a transfer.

> TODO: since assets cant be in dynamic arrays, this bit is annoying. We could define N selectors (up to 8 for assets) and dispatch them all to the same set of logic? for now just hardcoded to 4 and caller expected to pass 0s if they don't need all 4

> All the Royalty Recipients SHOULD be opted into the full set of assets contained in this list but MAY NOT be checked ahead of time. In the case that an account is not opted into an asset, any transfers where payment is specified for that asset will fail until the account opts into the asset.


##### Transfer: 

    transfer(royalty_asset: asset, from: account, to: account, royalty_collector: account, payment: transaction)

Transfers the Asset after checking that the royalty policy is adhered to. This call must be sent by the current owner (the `from` parameter)

The `royalty_asset` is the ASA ID to be transferred. It MUST have a policy defined prior to attempting a transfer.

The `from` parameter is the address for the account the ASA is transferred from.

The `to` parameter is the address for the account the ASA is transferred to.

The `royalty_collector` parameter is the address for the account that collects the royalty and takes care of any redistribution logic (if any). 

The `payment` parameter is a reference to the transaction that is transferring some asset (ASA or Algos) from the buyer to the Application Address. 

Upon each transfer the the Royalty Enforcer MUST assert that `AuthAddr == AssetSender` for the Seller (`from` parameter) and `AuthAddr == AssetReceiver` for the Buyer (`to` parameter), in other words Seller and Buyer accounts have not been Rekeyed. Exceptions can be handled with `Move` method.

> The rational for this check is ensuring that `Rekeying` is not exploited to transfer the `royalty_asset` ownership circumventing the Royalty Policy. Two parties involved in the trade could create a Group Transactions in which: 1. Seller rekeys the `seller_account` to the Buyer `buyer_account`, 2. Buyer sends payment to `other_seller_account`. Note that nothing can prevent the users to execute such trade but the Royalty Enforcer tries to dissuade this behavior: if such trade happens, the Receiver will no longer be able to re-sell the Royalty ASA in the regular way.

#### Optional

#### Create NFT

    create_nft()uint64

Creates an NFT with the appropriate parameters set. 

##### Move 

    move(royalty_asset: uint64, new_address: address)

Moves an asset to the new address without enforcing any royalty payment. May be useful in the case of a marketplace where the NFT must be placed in some escrow account. Any logic may be used to validate this is an authorized transfer.

## Rationale

The motivation behind defining a Royalty Enforcement specification is the need to guarantee a portion of a payment is received by select royalty collector on sale of an asset. Current royalty implementations are either platform specific or are only adhered to when an honest seller complies with it, allowing for the exchange of an asset without necessarily paying the royalties.

The use of a smart contract as a clawback address is a guaranteed way to know an asset transfer is only ever made when certain conditions are met, or made in conjunction with additional transactions. The Royalty Enforcer is responsible for the calculations required in dividing up and dispensing the payments to the respective parties. The present specification does not impose any restriction on the Royalty Collector distribution logic (if any), which could be achieved through a Multi Signature account, a Smart Signature or even through another Smart Contract.

On Ethereum the EIP-2981 standard allows for ERC-721 and ERC-1155 interfaces to signal a royalty amount to be paid, however this is not enforced and requires marketplaces to implement and adhere to it.

## Backwards Compatibility

Existing ASAs with unset freeze and clawback roles will be incompatible with this specification.

## Reference Implementation

https://github.com/algorand-devrel/royalty

## Security Considerations

Rekeying an account can be seen as circumventing this logic since there is no counter-party risk given that a rekey can be grouped with a payment. We address this by making sure the auth address on the buyer and seller are both set to the zero address.

Because we use the clawback mechanism to move the asset, we need to be sure that the current owner is actually interested in making the sale. We address this by requiring the app call is sent _from_ the current owner.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
