---
arc: 87
title: Key Name Specification
description: A standard for key names 
author: Michael Feher (@PhearZero), TBD
discussions-to: TBD
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category (*only required for Standards Track): ARC
subcategory: Application
created: 2025-07-14
---

## Abstract
Abstract is a multi-sentence (short paragraph) technical summary. This should be a very terse and human-readable version of the specification section. Someone should be able to read only the abstract to get the gist of what this specification does.

## Motivation
The motivation section should describe the "why" of this ARC. What problem does it solve? Why should someone want to implement this standard? What benefit does it provide to the Algorand ecosystem? What use cases does this ARC address?

## Specification
The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as described in <a href="https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt">RFC-2119</a>.

The technical specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature. The specification should be detailed enough to allow competing, interoperable implementations for any of the current Algorand platforms (go-algorand, ...).

## Rationale
The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other languages.

## Backwards Compatibility
All ARCs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The ARC must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. ARC submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.

## Test Cases
Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for ARCs that are affecting consensus changes.  If the test suite is too large to reasonably be included inline, then consider adding it as one or more files in `../assets/arc-####/`.

## Reference Implementation
An optional section that contains a reference/example implementation that people can use to assist in understanding or implementing this specification.  If the implementation is too large to reasonably be included inline, then consider adding it as one or more files in `../assets/arc-####/`.

## Security Considerations
All ARCs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal. E.g. include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed. ARC submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected. An ARC cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via <a href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">CCO</a>.
