---
arc: ARC-0028
title: Algorand Event Log Spec
description: A methodology for structured logging by Algorand dapps.
author: Dan Burton (@DanBurton)
discussions-to: https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/issues/113
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ARC
created: 2022-07-18
requires: ARC-0004
---

# Algorand Event Log Spec

> This API is a draft.
> Some elements may change.

## Summary

A methodology for structured logging by Algorand dapps.

## Abstract

Algorand dapps can use the `log` primitive to attach information about an application call. This ARC proposes the concept of Events, which are merely a way in which data contained in these logs may be categorized and structured.

In short: to emit an Event, a dapp calls `log` with ABI formatting of the log data, and a 4-byte prefix to indicate which Event it is.

## Specification

Each kind of Event emitted by a given dapp has a unique 4-byte identifier. This identifier is derived from its name and the structure of its contents, like so:

### Event Signature

An Event Signature is a utf8 string, comprised of: the name of the event, followed by an open paren, followed by the comma-separated names of the data types contained in the event, followed by a close paren. This follows naming conventions similar to ABI signatures, but does not include the return type.

### Deriving the 4-byte prefix from the Event Signature

To derive the 4-byte prefix from the Event Signature, perform the `sha512/256` hash algorithm on the signature, and select the first 4 bytes of the result.

This is the same process that is used by the [ABI Method Selector as specified in ARC 4](./arc-0004.md#method-selector).

### Sample interpretation of Event log data

An exchange dapp might emit a `Swapped` event with two `uint64` values representing quantities of currency swapped. The event signature would be: `Swapped(uint64,uint64)`.

Suppose that dapp emits the following log data (seen here as base64 encoded): `HMvZJQAAAAAAAAAqAAAAAAAAAGQ=`.

Suppose also that the dapp developers have declared that it follows this spec for Events, and have published the signature `Swapped(uint64,uint64)`.

We can attempt to parse this log data to see if it is one of these events, as follows. (This example is written in JavaScript.)

First, we can determine the expected 4-byte prefix by following the spec above:

```js
> { sha512_256 } = require('js-sha512')
> sig = 'Swapped(uint64,uint64)'
'Swapped(uint64,uint64)'
> hash = sha512_256(sig)
'1ccbd9254b9f2e1caf190c6530a8d435fc788b69954078ab937db9b5540d9567'
> prefix = hash.slice(0,8) // 8 nibbles = 4 bytes
'1ccbd925'
```

Next, we can inspect the data to see if it matches the expected format:
4 bytes for the prefix, 8 bytes for the first uint64, and 8 bytes for the next.

```js
> b = Buffer.from('HMvZJQAAAAAAAAAqAAAAAAAAAGQ=', 'base64')
<Buffer 1c cb d9 25 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 2a 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 64>
> b.slice(0,4).toString('hex')
'1ccbd925'
> b.slice(4, 12)
<Buffer 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 2a>
> b.slice(12,20)
<Buffer 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 64>
```

We see that the 4-byte prefix matches the signature for `Swapped(uint64,uint64)`, and that the rest of the data can be interpreted using the types declared for that signature. We interpret the above Event data to be: `Swapped(0x2a,0x64)`, meaning `Swapped(42,100)`.

## Rationale

Event logging allows a dapp to convey useful information about the things it is doing.  Well-designed Event logs allow observers to more easily interpret the history of interactions with the dapp. A structured approach to Event logging could also allow for indexers to more efficiently store and serve queriable data exposed by the dapp about its history.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
