---
arc: ARC-0024 
title: Transaction URI specification 
description: A specification for encoding Transactions in a URI format.
author: Ben Guidarelli (@barnjamin) 
discussions-to: <URL>
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Interface
created: 2022-04-21
---

## Abstract

A specification to describe the format of a Transaction or Transaction Group encoding with optionally user defined fields. The encoded transactions may be statically defined and provided to the intended signer in the form of a QR code or other easily parsable format in order to allow trivial Transaction construction, signing, and submission to the network. 

## Motivation

Interaction with the Algorand protocol is done by submitting signed transactions to the network. These transactions have a well defined format but it is difficult for a user to construct them on their own. Typically this transaction construction is done in some web application or on a server and passed to the signer for approval and signing.

It should be possible to provide these transactions in some format that does not require a web application or server to construct them. 

Here we define the format for encoding the transactions in such a way that the submitter may populate any dynamic fields as necessary, approve, sign, then submit them.


## Specification
The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

### Definitions

Creator - The actor that constructs the transactions and provides them with the appropriate encoding in some format that may be read in by the Signer.

Signer - The actor that is expected to review, sign, and submit the transactions to the network.

[Encoded Transaction](#encoded-transaction) - The transaction to be signed, encoded as [Canonical Msgpack](https://github.com/algorandfoundation/specs/blob/85e6db1fdbdef00aa232c75199e10dc5fe9498f6/dev/crypto.md#canonical-msgpack).

Dynamic Fields - The fields of a transaction that may be set by the Signer. These may be fields like first/last valid rounds or an amount to transfer. 

Group Payload - The json object containing the Encoded Transaction group.


### Encoded Transaction

A Transaction is encoded using 



## Rationale

The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other languages.

## Backwards Compatibility

All ARCs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The ARC must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. ARC submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.

## Test Cases
Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for ARCs that are affecting consensus changes.  If the test suite is too large to reasonably be included inline, then consider adding it as one or more files in `../assets/arc-####/`.

## Reference Implementation
An optional section that contains a reference/example implementation that people can use to assist in understanding or implementing this specification.  If the implementation is too large to reasonably be included inline, then consider adding it as one or more files in `../assets/arc-####/`.

## Security Considerations
All ARCs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal. E.g. include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed. ARC submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected. An ARC cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).