---
arc: 044
title: Algorand BIP44 HD Wallet derivations
description: Specification to support BIP44 
author: Bruno Martins (@ehanoc, bruno.martins@algorand.foundation)
discussions-to: 
status: Proposed
type: Standards Track
category: Interface
created: 2023-06-30
---

# Algorand BIP44 HD Wallet derivations

## **Abstract**

Proposal for standardization of Algorand's HD wallets and BIP44 derivation path. By establishing a consistent approach to wallet generation and key derivation, this ARC aims to enhance interoperability and compatibility across different wallets, applications, and services.

## **Motivation**

Currently, the Algorand ecosystem lacks a standardized methodology for HD wallet generation and key derivation paths. This absence of a consistent approach results in fragmentation and challenges for wallet developers, users, and the broader Algorand community. Standardization will improve the user experience, promote interoperability, and foster the development of a robust and secure ecosystem.

## **Known Derivation Implementations**

- `Ledger`:  Supporting already the derivation path `m/44'/283'/0'/0/0` for Algorand.
- `Trezor` : N/A
- `kmd` :  No BIP32/44 derivations, but HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation Function (HKDF) as defined in [RFC 5869](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5869.html)

## **Contextual Derivations**

We might need to derive keys for many different purposes and want to avoid re-using the same keys. Some possible contextual derivations can be for the purpose of generating keys for algorand addresses, identity such as DIDs, authentication, messaging, etc.

## **Specification**

### **BIP44 Derivation Path**

The BIP44 path structure follows the format: `m/purpose'/coin_type'/account'/change/address_index`.

`m`: The root key of the HD wallet.

`purpose`': The purpose field indicating the usage of this path. 

`coin_type`': The coin type field indicating the specific cryptocurrency.

`account`': The account index.

`change`: The change index.

`address_index`: The index of a specific address generated by the wallet.

#### **Specification For Algorand**

The following table outlines the derivation path for Algorand wallets. The table introduces the ability for wallets to generate keys for a specific (optional) Context. 

| Purpose | Coin Type | Account | Change | Address Index | Context             |
| :-----: | :-------: | :-----: | :----: | :-----------: | :-----------------: |
|  44'    |    283'   |    x'   |   x    |       x       | Algorand Addresses  |
|  44'    |    0'     |    x'   |   x    |       x       | Identity Keys       |

Please note the \' symbol after each field. This symbol indicates that the field is hardened. See [BIP32 Extended Keys](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki#extended-keys)

##### **Contexts**

- **Algorand Addresses**: The context for deriving Algorand addresses. This context is used to derive the public keys for Algorand addresses.

- **Identity Keys**: The context for deriving identity keys. These can be used for Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) and other identity-related use cases. Path `m/44'/0'/x'/x/x` is the one suggested in the [W3C Universal Wallet Interoperability Spec](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/universal-wallet-interop-spec/#hd-wallets).

- Others can / should be added in the future.

### **HD Wallet Generation**
The standardization will also cover HD wallet generation, ensuring compatibility across different wallet implementations. Wallets adhering to this standard must use the BIP39 standard for mnemonic phrases and BIP32 for key derivation. The following steps outline the HD wallet generation process:

Generate a random mnemonic phrase of 12 or 24 / 25 words using BIP39.
Derive a seed from the mnemonic phrase using BIP39.
Derive the master key from the seed using BIP32.
Derive the account-level keys from the master key using the BIP44 derivation path with the appropriate purpose, coin type, account index, change index, and address index.
Derive change and address-level keys from the account-level keys using the BIP44 derivation path.

### **Wallet Compatibility**
Wallets adhering to this standard will be compatible with each other and with applications and services built on the Algorand blockchain. Wallet users will be able to import their account into any compatible wallet by using their mnemonic phrase or extended public key (xpub). The compatibility will ensure a seamless user experience and facilitate the adoption of Algorand across various platforms.