---
arc: 12 
title: Algorand Naming Service  
status: Draft
---

# Algorand Naming Service 

> This API is a draft.
> Some elements may change. In particular, the error part may change drastically depending on feedback.

## Summary

A specification for a service to store and resolve arbitrary properties for a name.

## Abstract

The goal of this API is to propose a standard way for names to be associated with a set of properties and for those propperties to be resolved given the name. It provides recommendations for the smart contracts to facilitate storage as well as wallets or dapps to resolve the properties. 
 

## Definitions:

*[Name](#names)* - A byte string used to provide a convenient reference to a set of Properties (eg silvio.algo)

*Root* - The domain under which the Name is registered (eg .algo)

*[Name Record](#name-record)* - A Contract Account with the Template Variable for the Name populated and Opted-In to a Name Registry 

*[Property](#properties)* - A Key/Value pair stored in Local State of a Name Record (eg "twitter": "@silviomicali" )

*Owner* - The Account that has authority to update Properties for a Name Record

*[Name Registry](#name-registry)* - A Stateful Smart Contract that allows Name Records to opt-in and maintains Properties associated in their Local State

*Registration* - The initial submission of an Application Opt-In transaction from the Name Record to the Name Registry

*[Name Resolution](#name-resolution)* -  The method by which Properties for Names are found 

*[Resolver](#resolver)* - The actor performing the association of Name to Property

*[Template Contract Validation](#template-contract-validation)* - A method to validate that a given contract account adheres to certain logic


## Specification

The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC-2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt).

> Comments like this are non-normative.



An ARC-12 Naming Service is embodied as two Smart Contracts to store Names and Properties and a method to Resolve the Names:

### Names


Names are resolved from right to left. The right most element is the `root` under which the next element to the left can be resolved. 

Resolution of a name starts with a predefined Root Name Registry App ID and resolution proceeds from right to left until the field or fields are fully resolved.


- A Name MAY be associated to up to 16 properties, where one MUST be the owner.
- A Name MAY refer to a single Property in the Local State of of the Name Record or omit the property name and the full local state is returned as properties. 


ex:
```
silvio.algo  =>  {"address":Global.ZeroAddress(), "twitter":"@silviomicali", "l337":"asf"}
twitter.silvio.algo => "@silviomicali"
```

### Properties

- The key of a property MUST be a byte string
- The length in bytes of a property key/value pair MUST be <= 128 bytes.


# Contracts

A Stateless Contract (Name Record) is used as a contract account. The logic is a standadized Template Contract with one Template Variable, the Name. This provides a predictable address to use for resolution.  Local State for the address is used to store arbitrary Properties that may be resolved for the name.  

A Stateful Contract (Name Registry) validates the Name Record contract and allows storage of Properties assocaited with a Name to be stored in its local state.


## Name Record

- A Name Record MUST include the App ID of the `root` it should be resolved under. 
- A Name Record MUST NOT allow any action besides Opting-in/Out of the Application
- A Name Record MAY be deregistered to clear their state.


## Name Registry

- A Name Registry MAY validate the Registration by performing [Template Contract Validation](#template-contract-validation)
- A Name Registry MUST set the `owner` property to the owner value provided in the Registration transaction.
- A Name Registry MUST allow updates to properties in the Name Records local state
- A Name Registry MUST allow the Name Record to deregister if the transaction is co-signed by the Owner


### Name Register
Initializing the Properties for a Name.

To register a Name Record an Application OptIn transaction is submitted where:

1. The ApplicationArgs array is populated with the Name Record bytecode and properties ([bytecode, key1, value1, key2, value2 ,...])
2. The Account array is populated with the Name Record Account annd the registering Owner

> Note: Before registering, the Name Record's contract account needs to be seeded with enough Algos to cover opt-in



### Name Deregister
Removing all properties associated with a Name

To deregister a Name Record an atomic group containing two transactions:

1. A 0 amt pay txn signed by the owner validate the Owners authority 
2. An Application Clear Transaction to remove the local state of the Name Record


### Property Set 
Initial setting and updating of Properties for a Name Record

The updates MUST take the form of an Application Call Transaction where:

1. The Accounts array contains the address of the name being updated
2. The `from` field matches the `owner` field of the local state for the Name Record being updated
3. The AppArgs contains the keys/values for the properties being updated ([key1,value1,key2,value2,...])

### Property Delete
Removal of properties from a Name Record

To delete a property an Application Call Transaction where:

1. The Accounts array MUST contain the address of the name being updated
2. The `from` field matches the `owner` field of the local state for the Name Record being updated
3. The AppArgs contains the keys for the properties being deleted ([key1,key2,key2])

Properties in the local state for a Name Record MAY be deleted

### Owner Transfer 
Transfer ownership (the right to modify properties) to a another account

To transfer a name, an application call transaction is submitted where:
1. The Accounts array MUST contain the address of the Name Record being transferred and The address of the new owner.
2. The `from` field matches the `owner` field of the local state for the Name Record transferred
3. The AppArgs contains the new owner address

The Application MUST update the owner field to the new owner.


# Resolver

A resolver is any service that provides the functionality to resolve a name to a property or set of properties. This may be a library that implements the functionality necessary to perform resolution or a we service.


## Name Resolution

To resolve a name

1. The Name is split by periods into a list of elements (eg "silvio.algo" => ["silvio", "algo"]) 
2. The N-1 name is populated into its Name Record bytecode and hashed to find its an address (sha512_256("Program" + bytecode))
3. The App ID for the first Root is used to retrieve the local state for the address
4. (Optional) If the name contains more components:
	a) If the next element is a Property in the local state, return the value for that property
	b) Otherwise the special property `AppID` in the local state is used to repeat steps 2=>4 until the name is fully resolved

> The App ID of the right most element and must be associated to a known App ID ahead of time (eg algo => app id 42)
> The Template Contract required for each Name registry could be different, so must be retrieved from ... somewhere?
> Each element in the Name is the root for the element preceeding.

A Name Resolution service MAY cache the App IDs for a Roots.


## Template Contract Validation

> This is a method that works but is a bit hacky.  A better method might be for the Application to expose an ABI method that can create the contract account from a hardcoded template and parameters passed to the method.

For the Name Registry to validate a Template Contract, it is passed the bytecode for the logic as an AppArg. The bytecode is manipulated to remove the bytes for the name creating a "Contract Blank". It is hashed and compared to the expected hash of a "Contract Blank". The original bytecode is hashed to generate the address and compared with the address of the account opting-in.

#### Setup:

1. The Name Record Template Contract and is compiled with a dummy variable
2. The byte location of the Name variable is noted and the bytes for the Name are removed, creating the "Contract Blank"
4. The "Contract Blank" bytes are hashed to provide a pre-image (sha256(bytecode)) 
5. The Name bytecode Location and hash("Contract Blank") are added to the Name Registry Approval Program (Hardcoded or global vars?).

#### Validation:

1. During Opt-In the Name Record bytecode is passed as an AppArg
2. The bytecode location of the Name is used to find and remove the bytes for the Name variable, producing the "Contract Blank". 
3. The "Contract Blank" bytes are hashed and compared to the hash("Contract Blank") from setup
4. The Name Record bytecode is hashed to produce an address and compared to the `from` address of the account Opting-in
5. If all checks pass, the template is valid and can proceed to opt-in and set properties