---
arc: 0070
title: Community Algorand Standard Asset Parameters Conventions for Soul Bound NFTs
author:
- Jupiter Yu
  discussions-to: https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/pull/121
  status: Draft
  created: 2022-08-14
---

# Community Algorand Standard Asset Parameters Conventions for Soul Bound Token

## Summary

We introduce community Algorand Standard Asset Parameters Conventions for Soul Bound Token (ARC-70), this is a specific application of ARC-69.

## Abstract

Soulbound tokens (SBT) are non-transferable, non-fungible, publicly-verifiable digital tokens that can act as a type of CV for web3 users, showing an individual’s memberships, credentials, and affiliations.

The goal of these conventions is to make it simpler to display the properties of a given Algorand Soulbound token. This ARC differs from [ARC69](https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/blob/main/ARCs/arc-0069.md) and [ARC3](https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/blob/main/ARCs/arc-0003.md) by focusing on optimization for fetching of Soulbound data, as well as the use of onchain metadata. Furthermore, since asset configuration transactions are used to store the metadata, ARC-70 can be applied to existing ASAs to make soulbound NFTs. In addition, this arc also requires creators to finish some extra processes while minting the SBT and sending them to souls(Algorand Accounts).

## Motivation

Economic value finance trades on is generated by humans and their relationships. Because web3 lacks primitives to represent such social identity, it has become fundamentally dependent on the very centralized web2 structures it aims to transcend, replicating their limitations.

What's more, the lack of a native web3 identity makes today’s DeFi ecosystem unable to support activities ubiquitous in the real economy, such as undercollateralized lending or simple contracts, like an apartment lease.

The solution is soulbound tokens (SBTs).

Imagine a world where most participants have Souls that store SBTs corresponding to a series of aliations, memberships, and credentials. For example, a person might have a Soul that stores SBTs representing educational credentials, employment history, or hashes of their writings or works of art. In their simplest form, these SBTs can be “self-certified,” similar to how we share information about ourselves in our CVs. But the true power of this mechanism emerges when SBTs held by one Soul can be issued—or attested—by other Souls, who are counterparties to these relationships. These counterparty Souls could be individuals, companies, or institutions. 

In other words, “soulbound” tokens (SBTs) can encode the trust networks of the real economy to establish provenance and reputation. More importantly, SBTs enable other applications of increasing ambition, such as community wallet recovery, sybil-resistant governance, mechanisms for decentralization, and novel markets with decomposable, shared rights. This richer, pluralistic ecosystem “Decentralized Society” is called (DeSoc)—a co-determined sociality, where Souls and communities come together bottom-up, as emergent properties of each other to co-create plural network goods and intelligence, at a range of scales. Key to this sociality is decomposable property rights and enhanced governance mechanisms—such as quadratic funding discounted by correlation scores—that reward trust and cooperation while protecting networks from capture, extraction, and domination. With such augmented sociality, web3 can eschew today’s hyper-financialization in favor of a more transformative, pluralist future of increasing returns across social distance.

Thus, in order to build such a great sociality on Algorand, SBTs are crucial.


## Specification

The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC-2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt).

An ARC-70 ASA has an associated JSON Metadata file, formatted as specified below, that is stored on-chain in the note field of the asset configuration transaction (that contains a note field with a valid ARC-70 JSON metadata).

### ASA Parameters Conventions

The ASA parameters should follow the following conventions:

* *Default Frozen* (`df`): **MUST** be _False_ for creators to initially issue SBTs to other souls (Algorand accounts).
* *Unit Name* (`un`): no restriction. 
* *Asset Name* (`an`): no restriction.
* *Asset URL* (`au`): a URI pointing to a soulbound data file. This URI:
    * **SHOULD** be persistent.
    * **SHOULD** link to a file small enough to fetch quickly in a gallery view.
    * **MUST** follow [RFC-3986](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3986.txt) and **MUST NOT** contain any whitespace character.
    * **SHOULD** specify media type with `#` fragment identifier at end of URL. This format **MUST** follow: `#i` for images, `#v` for videos, `#a` for audio, `#p` for PDF, or `#h` for HTML/interactive digital media.  If unspecified, assume Image.
    * **SHOULD** use one of the following URI schemes (for compatibility and security): *https* and *ipfs*:
        * When the file is stored on IPFS, the `ipfs://...` URI **SHOULD** be used. IPFS Gateway URI (such as `https://ipfs.io/ipfs/...`) **SHOULD NOT** be used.
    * **SHOULD NOT** use the following URI scheme: *http* (due to security concerns).
* *Asset Metadata Hash* (`am`): the SHA-256 digest of the media file as a 32-byte string (as defined in [NIST FIPS 180-4](https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4))
    * **OPTIONAL**
* *Freeze Address* (`f`): 
    * **SHOULD** be the issuer, for the purpose of freezing the asset after sending it to the soul, also can be the proof of provenance.
* *Clawback Address* (`c`): 
    * **SHOULD** be empty, or the issuer if there is a need for lending or other use cases
* *Manager Address* (`m`): 
    * **SHOULD** be empty, to ensure the immutability of the token metadata (immutability of identity).

Furthermore, the manager address, if present, **SHOULD** be under the control of the ASA creator, as the manager address can unilaterally change the metadata. Some advanced use cases **MAY** use a logicsig as ASA manager, if the logicsig only allows setting the note fields by the ASA creator. In this case, SBTs can be evolvable under the updates of the manager, for example, one NFT could represent multiple identities, memberships, credentials, etc. along with time.

Once the issuer issues the soulbound token to a soul (Algorand account), a freeze transaction which freezes the asset in the soul's account **MUST** be performed combined with the asset transfer transaction (transaction combination is described in [Atomic transfers](https://developer.algorand.org/docs/get-details/atomic_transfers/)). 



### JSON Metadata File Schema

```json
{
    "title": "Token Metadata",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "standard": {
            "type": "string",
            "value": "arc70",
            "description": "(Required) Describes the standard used."
        },
        "owner": {
            "type":"string",
            "description": "Indicates the soul/account who owns the SBT. Should be an Algorand address"
        },
        "issuer":{
            "type":"string",
            "description": "Indicates the issuer who issues or creates the SBT. Should be an Algorand address"
        },
        "description": {
            "type": "string",
            "description": "Describes the asset to which this token represents."
        },
        "external_url": {
            "type": "string",
            "description": "A URI pointing to an external website. Borrowed from Open Sea's metadata format (https://docs.opensea.io/docs/metadata-standards)."
        },
        "properties": {
            "type": "object", 
            "description": "Properties following the EIP-1155 'simple properties' format. (https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1155.md#erc-1155-metadata-uri-json-schema)"
        },
        "mime_type": {
            "type": "string",
            "description": "Describes the MIME type of the ASA's URL (`au` field)."
        },
    },
    "required":[
        "standard",
        "owner",
        "issuer"
    ]
}
```
The `standard` field is **REQUIRED** and **MUST** equal "arc70". All other fields are **OPTIONAL**. If provided, the other fields **MUST** match the description in the JSON schema.

The URI field (`external_url`) is defined similarly to the Asset URL parameter `au`.
However, contrary to the Asset URL, the `external_url` does not need to link to the digital media file.


#### MIME Type

In addition to specifying a data type in the ASA's URL (`au` field) with a URI fragment (ex: `#v` for video), the JSON Metadata schema also allows indication of the URL's MIME type (ex: `video/mp4`) via the `mime_type` field.


#### Examples

##### Basic Example

An example of an ARC-70 JSON Metadata file for proof of participation in a meeting follows. The properties array proposes some **SUGGESTED** formatting for token-specific display properties and metadata.

```json
{
  "standard": "arc70",
  "Owner":"NPZIAIWWTFEB5BN6ISEH3JT5AAEDJWKHA3AR7LVY3CO5CBAZFCYHBKECQE", 
  "Issuer":"NPZIAIWWTFEB5BN6ISEH3JT5AAEDJWKHA3AR7LVY3CO5CBAZFCYHBKSADS", 
  "description": "proof of participation of defi meeting",
  "external_url": "https://bitcoinevents.co.za/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/DEFI-AD-2022-1.jpg",
  "mime_type": "image/jpeg",
  "properties": {
    "Topic":"Defi 2022",
    "Duration": "2021-9-11-2021-9-13",
    "identity":"speaker"
  }
}
```

An example of possible ASA parameters would be:

* *Asset Name*: `Defi SBT` for example.
* *Unit Name*: `SBT` for example.
* *Asset URL*: `ipfs://bafkreigfvngoydofemwj5x5ioqsaqarvlprzgxinkcv3am3jpv2sysqobi`
* *Metadata Hash*: the 32 bytes of the SHA-256 digest of the soulbound data file.
* *Total Number of Units*: 1
* *Number of Digits after the Decimal Point*: 0


#### Mutability

##### Rendering

Clients **SHOULD** render an ASA's latest ARC70 metadata. Clients **MAY** render an ASA's previous ARC70 metadata for changelogs or other historical features.

##### Updating ARC70 metadata

If an SBT has a manager address, then the manager **MAY** update an SBT's ARC70 metadata. To do so, the manager sends a new `acfg` transaction with the entire metadata represented as JSON in the transaction's `note` field.

##### Making ARC70 metadata immutable and removing the freeze manage account to make ARC70 non-transferable

Managers **SHOULD** make an SBT's ARC70 immutable and non-transferable. To do so, they MUST remove the SBT's manager address and the SBT's freeze address with an `acfg` transaction.

##### About AssetCloseTo `aclose` transaction

An 'aclose' transaction sends all of an ASA away and opts out of it. Thus, SBT also faces the challenge that it may be sent to its issuer/creator by `aclose` transaction. In order to solve this, a couple of methods could be applied:

1. Smart contract management: all SBTs **MAY** be issued and maintained by smart contracts which are publicly-verifiable, the smart contracts might be deployed by issuers/SBT creators. For example, a defi meeting organizer may mint all SBTs, whose owners are those who have participated in the meeting, and send them to a smart contract which is used for the purpose of maintaining the SBT. Therefore, all third parties could verify the information contained in the SBT held by the smart contract. 

2. New specifications on Algorand Wallet Transaction Signing API (defined in [ARC-0001](https://arc.algorand.foundation/ARCs/arc-0001)): In _Transaction Validation_ - _Inputs that Must Be Systematically Rejected_: Transactions WalletTransaction.txn with field txn.AssetCloseTo **MUST** be rejected. 

As ARC-70 has specified the issuer and owner at the time it is minted, it might be not so important for owners to hold the asset, In other words, third parties could retrieve a soul (Algorand accounts) SBT via the SBT metadata on-chain. 


## Rationale

These conventions take inspiration from [Open Sea's metadata standards](https://docs.opensea.io/docs/metadata-standards) and [EIP-1155](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1155.md#erc-1155-metadata-uri-json-schema) to facilitate interoperability. 

For an ASA, It has met the following features to become a SBT that could performs full functions:
1. Non-transferable
2. Non-fungible
3. Publicly-verifiable
4. Should show its provenance and owner
5. Can be taken back and destroyed (optional) 
6. Can be evolved (optional)

The Algorand blockchain provides the means for publicly verifiable transactions. The [ARC-0069](https://arc.algorand.foundation/ARCs/arc-0069) sets the conventions for creating non-fungible tokens (immutable or mutable). The new JSON Metadata File Schema ensures that ARC-70 per se could show its provenance and owner. To make NFTs non-transferable, the asset _Freeze Address_ parameter must be modified and the transactions for transferring and freezing the asset must be performed as specified above. If there is a need to meet the requirement of clawback, the asset _Clawback Address_ parameter must be modified as specified above. If there is a need to meet the requirement of updating the metadata and thus the asset could evolve, the asset _Manager Address_ parameter must be modified as specified above. 

## Reference
**Standards**
- [ARC-0001 Algorand Wallet Transaction Signing API](https://arc.algorand.foundation/ARCs/arc-0001)
- [ARC-0069 Community Algorand Standard Asset Parameters Conventions for Digital Media Tokens](https://arc.algorand.foundation/ARCs/arc-0069)
- [RFC 2119 Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt)
- [Open Sea's metadata standards](https://docs.opensea.io/docs/metadata-standards)
- [EIP-1155](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1155.md#erc-1155-metadata-uri-json-schema)
- [RFC-3986](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3986.txt)
- [NIST FIPS 180-4](https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4)
- [Algorand Atomic transfers](https://developer.algorand.org/docs/get-details/atomic_transfers/)

**Paper**
- [Decentralized Society: Finding Web3's Soul](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4105763)

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
