---
arc: 9
title: Algorand Wallet Algodv2 and Indexer API
status: Draft
---

# Algorand Wallet Algodv2 and Indexer API

> This API is a draft.
> Some elements may change.
> Furthermore, this API is considered a stopgap solution.

## Summary

An API for accessing Algod and Indexer through a user's preferred connection.

## Abstract

Functions `getAlgodv2Client` and `getIndexerClient` which return a `BaseHTTPClient` that can be used to construct an `Algodv2Client` and an `IndexerClient` respectively (from the [JS SDK](https://github.com/algorand/js-algorand-sdk/blob/develop/src/main.ts));

## Specification

### Interface `GetAlgodv2ClientFunction`

```ts
type GetAlgodv2ClientFunction = () => Promise<BaseHTTPClient>
```

Returns a promised `BaseHTTPClient` that can be used to then build an `Algodv2Client`, where `BaseHTTPClient` is an interface matching the interface `algosdk.BaseHTTPClient` from the [JS SDK](https://github.com/algorand/js-algorand-sdk/blob/develop/src/main.ts).

### Interface `GetIndexerClientFunction`

```ts
type GetIndexerClientFunction = () => Promise<BaseHTTPClient>
```

Returns a promised `BaseHTTPClient` that can be used to then build an `Indexer`, where `BaseHTTPClient` is an interface matching the interface `algosdk.BaseHTTPClient` from the [JS SDK](https://github.com/algorand/js-algorand-sdk/blob/develop/src/main.ts).

### Security considerations

The returned `BaseHTTPClient` **SHOULD** filter the queries made to prevent potential attacks and reject (i.e., throw an exception) if this is not satisfied.
A non-exhaustive list of checks is provided below:
* Check that the relative PATH does not contain `..`.
* Check that the only provided headers are the ones used by the SDK (when this ARC was written: `accept` and `content-type`) and their values are the ones provided by the SDK.

`BaseHTTPClient` **MAY** impose rate limits.

For higher security, `BaseHTTPClient` **MAY** also check the queries with regards to the OpenAPI specification of the node and the indexer.

## Rationale

Nontrivial DApps often require the ability to query the network for activity. Algorand DApps written without regard to wallets are likely written using `Algodv2` and `Indexer` from `algosdk`. 
This document allows DApps to instantiate `Algodv2` and `Indexer` fom a wallet API service, making it easy for JavaScript DApp authors to port their code to work with wallets.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
