---
arc: 83
title: xGov Council - Application Process
description: How to run for an xGov Council seat.
author: Stéphane Barroso (@SudoWeezy), Adriana Belotti, Michele Treccani
discussions-to: https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/issues/338
status: Draft
type: Meta
created: 2025-03-12
---

## Abstract

The goal of this ARC is to clearly define the process for running for an xGov Council seat.

## Specification

The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as described in <a href="https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt">RFC-2119</a>.

### How to apply

In order to apply, a pull request needs to be created on the following repository: <a href="https://github.com/algorandfoundation/xGov">xGov Council</a>.

Candidates must explain why they are applying to become an xGov Council member, their motivation for participating in the review process, and how their involvement can contribute to the Algorand ecosystem.

- Follow the <a href="https://github.com/algorandfoundation/xGov/blob/main/README.md">Rules</a> of the xGov Council Repository.

- Follow the [template form provided](../assets/arc-0083/TemplateForm.md), complete all sections, and submit your application using the following file format: `Council/xgov_council-<id>.md`.

#### Header Preamble

The `id` field is unique and incremented for each new submission. (The id should match the file name, for `id: 1`, the related file is `xgov_council-1.md`)

The `author` field must include the candidate's full name and their GitHub username in parentheses.
> Example: Jane Doe (@janedoe)

The `email` field must include a valid email address where the candidate can be contacted regarding the KYC (Know Your Customer) process.

The `address` field represents an Algorand wallet address. This address will be used for verification or any token distribution if applicable.

The `status` field indicates the current status of the submission:
- `Draft`: In Pull request stage but not ready to be merged.
- `Final`: In Pull request stage and ready to be merged.
- `Elected`: The candidate has been elected.
- `Not Elected`: The candidate has not been selected.

## Rationale

The xGov Council is a fundamental component of the xGov Program, tasked with reviewing proposals.
A structured, transparent application process ensures that only qualified and committed individuals are elected to the Council.

## Security Considerations

None

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via <a href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">CCO</a>.
