---
arc: 27
author: Enrico Speranza (@Vytek)
title: Community Algorand Standard Asset Parameters Conventions for Digital 3D Media Tokens
status: Draft
created: 2022-05-17
---

# Community Algorand Standard Asset Parameters Conventions for 3D Digital Media Tokens

## Summary

We introduce community conventions for the parameters of Algorand Standard Assets (ASAs) containing digital 3D media.

## Abstract

The goal of these conventions is to make it simpler to store, find and display the properties of a given ASA. This ARC differs from [ARC3](https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/blob/main/ARCs/arc-0003.md) and [ARC69](https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/blob/main/ARCs/arc-0069.md) by focusing on optimization for fetching of digital 3D media, as well as the use of onchain metadata. Furthermore, since asset configuration transactions are used to store the metadata, this ARC can be applied to existing ASAs.

The ASA manager **MAY** remove the manager address, after which point the Algorand network won't allow anyone to send asset configuration transactions for the ASA. This effectively makes the latest valid ARC-27 metadata immutable.


## Specification

The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC-2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt).

An ARC-27 ASA has an associated JSON Metadata file, formatted as specified below, that is stored on-chain in the note field of the most recent asset configuration transaction (that contains a note field with a valid ARC-27 JSON metadata).

### ASA Parameters Conventions

The ASA parameters should follow the following conventions:

* *Unit Name* (`un`): no restriction. 
* *Asset Name* (`an`): no restriction.
* *Asset URL* (`au`): a URI pointing to digital media file. This URI:
    * **SHOULD** be persistent.
    * **SHOULD** link to a 3D Mesh file. It is **RECOMMENDED** that a client application downloads and renders them.
    * **MUST** follow [RFC-3986](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3986.txt) and **MUST NOT** contain any whitespace character.
    * **SHOULD** use one of the following URI schemes (for compatibility and security): *https* and *ipfs*:
        * When the file is stored on IPFS, the `ipfs://...` URI **SHOULD** be used. IPFS Gateway URI (such as `https://ipfs.io/ipfs/...`) **SHOULD NOT** be used.
    * **SHOULD NOT** use the following URI scheme: *http* (due to security concerns).
* *Asset Metadata Hash* (`am`): **SHOULD** the SHA-256 digest of the 3D Mesh file as a 32-byte string (as defined in [NIST FIPS 180-4](https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4))
* *Freeze Address* (`f`): 
    * **SHOULD** be empty, unless needed for royalties or other use cases
* *Clawback Address* (`c`): 
    * **SHOULD** be empty, unless needed for royalties or other use cases


There are no requirements regarding the manager account of the ASA, or the reserve account. However, if immutability is required the manager address **MUST** be removed.

Furthermore, the manager address, if present, **SHOULD** be under the control of the ASA creator, as the manager address can unilaterally change the metadata. Some advanced use cases **MAY** use a logicsig as ASA manager, if the logicsig only allows to set the note fields by the ASA creator.

### JSON Metadata File Schema

```json
{
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-04/schema#",
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "standard": {
      "type": "string"
    },
    "title": {
      "type": "string"
    },
    "description": {
      "type": "string"
    },
    "mime_type": {
      "type": "string"
    },
    "properties": "type": "object", 
            "description": "Properties following the EIP-1155 'simple properties' format. (https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1155.md#erc-1155-metadata-uri-json-schema)",
  "required": [
    "standard",
    "title",
    "description",
    "mime_type"
  ]
}

```
The `standard` field is **REQUIRED** and **MUST** equal "arc27". All other fields are **OPTIONAL**. If provided, the other fields **MUST** match the description in the JSON schema.

#### MIME Type

The JSON Metadata schema **MUST** indication of the URL's MIME type (ex: `model/vnd.usdz+zip`) via the `mime_type` field. For URL MIME 3D Mesh format **SHOULD** follow: https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml#model If the MIME IANA encoding is missing a generic `application/octet-stream` will be used, the type must be specified in the metadata properties.

#### Examples

##### Basic Example

An example of an ARC-27 JSON Metadata file for a song follows. The properties array proposes some **SUGGESTED** formatting for token-specific display properties and metadata.

```json
{
  "standard": "arc27",
  "title": "3D NFT Token Metadata",
  "description": "3D Avatar",
  "mime_type": "model/gltf-binary",
  "properties": {
    "Author": "Vytek",
    "Engine": "Unity3D"
  }
}
```

An example of possible ASA parameters would be:

* *Asset Name*: `ARC27 ` for example.
* *Unit Name*: `27AM` for example.
* *Asset URL*: `ipfs://Qme6AptneriZgLzEpRbAPgBmAmp2pJTfV3YCScAvtmcCF2`
* *Metadata Hash*: **SHOULD** the 32 bytes of the SHA-256 digest of the 3D Mesh file.
* *Total Number of Units*: 1
* *Number of Digits after the Decimal Point*: 0

#### Mutability

##### Rendering

Clients **SHOULD** render an ASA's latest ARC27 metadata. Clients **MAY** render an ASA's previous ARC27 metadata for changelogs or other historical features.

##### Updating ARC27 metadata

If an ASA has a manager address, then the manager **MAY** update an ASA's ARC27 metadata. To do so, the manager sends a new `acfg` transaction with the entire metadata represented as JSON in the transaction's `note` field. The metadata inserted in `note` **MAY** also be serialized using MessagePack (see: https://github.com/msgpack/msgpack/blob/master/spec.md).

##### Making ARC27 metadata immutable

Managers MAY make an ASA's ARC27 immutable. To do so, they MUST remove the ASA's manager address with an `acfg` transaction.

## Rationale 

The main features are highlighted below:

* Asset Name, Unit Name, and URL are specified in the ASA parameters. This allows applications to efficiently display meaningful information, even if they aren't aware of ARC27 metadata.
* MIME types help clients more effectively fetch and render media.
* All asset metadata is stored onchain.
* Metadata can be either mutable or immutable.

This ARC is compliant with: ARC18

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
