---
arc: 76
title: H999 Account
description: SHA512-256 999 account
author: Ludovit Scholtz (@scholtz)
discussions-to: https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/issues/208
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2023-06-12
---

## Abstract
This standard specifies a computation for seed bytes for H999 account. For general adoption it is better for people to remember passphrase than mnemonic. With this standard person can hash the passphrase and receive the seed bytes for X25529 algorand account.

## Motivation
By providing a clear and precise computation process, H999 account empowers individuals to effortlessly obtain their seed bytes for algorand account. In the realm of practicality and widespread adoption, the standard highlights the immense advantages of utilizing a passphrase rather than a mnemonic. Remembering a passphrase becomes the key to unlocking a world of possibilities. With this groundbreaking standard, individuals can take control of their X25529 Algorand account by simply hashing their passphrase and effortlessly receiving the corresponding seed bytes. It's time to embrace this new era of accessibility and security, empowering yourself to reach new heights in the world of H999 accounts. Let this standard serve as your guiding light, motivating community to embark on a journey of limitless possibilities and unparalleled success.

This standard seek the synchronization between wallets which may provide password protected accounts.

## Specification

Hash of the seed bytes is calculated with algorithm:

```
const init = `${data}`;
let hash = sha512.sha512_256.hex(init);
for (let i = 1; i <= 997; i++) {
  hash = sha512.sha512_256.hex(hash);
}
const bytes = sha512.sha512_256.array(hash);

const uint8 = new Uint8Array(bytes);
const mnemonic = algosdk.mnemonicFromSeed(uint8);
const genAccount = algosdk.mnemonicToSecretKey(mnemonic);
```

Length of the data section SHOULD be at least 16 bytes long.

### Email Password account

Email H999 account is account generated from the original data

```
let init = `${email}-${password}`;
```

The email part can be published to the service provider backend and verified by the service provider. Password MUST NOT be transfered over the network.

Length of the password SHOULD be at least 12 bytes long.

## Rationale
This standard was designed to allow the wallets to provide password protected accounts which does not require general population to store the mnemonic. Email extension allows service providers to bind specific account with the email address, and user experience to feel the basic authentication form with email and password they are already used to from web2 usecases.

## Backwards Compatibility
We expect future extensions to be compatibile with H999 account.

## Security Considerations
This standard moves the security of strength of the account to how user generates the password.

This standard relies on randomness  and collision resistance of results of SHA512/256. User MUST be informed about the risks associated with this type of account.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via <a href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">CCO</a>.
