---
arc: 64
title: AVM Run Time Errors Source Map
description: Informative AVM run time errors based on program counter source map
author: Cosimo Bassi (@cusma), Tasos Bitsios (@tasosbit), Steve Ferrigno (@nullun)
discussions-to: https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/issues/305
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ARC
created: 2024-08-05
---

## Abstract

This document introduces conventions for rising informative run time error messages
on the Algorand Virtual Machine (AVM) based on a program counter *source map*.

## Motivation

The AVM does not offer native opcodes to catch and raise run time errors.

The lack of native error handling semantics could lead to fragmentation of tooling
and frictions for AVM clients, who are unable to retrieve informative and useful
hints about the occurred run time failures.

This ARC formalizes conventions to raise AVM run time errors based on a program
counter source map.

## Specification

The keywords "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**",
"**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**"
in this document are to be interpreted as described in <a href="https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119">RFC 2119</a>.

> Notes like this are non-normative.

### Program Counter Error Source Map

> TEAL source code instructions are uniquely identified by a program counter, returned
> in the Algod API response upon AVM run time failure.

> A program counter source map maps program counters back to the original TEAL
> source code lines.

> The program counter error source map convention is based on error messages written
> as comments in the TEAL source code.

When a program wants to emit a run time error, it **MUST**:

1. Precede the failing TEAL instruction with a comment (error message);
1. Produce a program counter source map for the client.

Upon a program run time failure, the Algod API returns the failed *program counter*
(`pc`).

Using the program counter, the client **MUST**:

1. Retrieve the error message preceding the failed TEAL instruction from the program
counter source map;
1. Return the error message.

### Example

```
int 0				[pc=0]
int 1				[pc=1]
&&				[pc=2]
// ERR_LOGIC_FALSE
assert				[pc=3]
```

> The evaluation of the example program would result in a run time error on the
> `assert` instruction, returning the failed program counter (`[pc=3]`) as part
> of the Algod API response. Using a program counter source map, the client is
> then able to retrieve and return the corresponding error message `ERR_LOGIC_FALSE`
> (i.e. the comment preceding the failed program counter).

## Rationale

The program counter error source map convention for AVM run time error messages 
presents the following PROS and CONS.

### PROS

- No program size consumed by error messages.

### CONS

- Standard program source maps required for clients to map errors to failed program
counter;
- Developers or compilers need to create an extra “errors source map” to map program
assertion locations to specific error codes;
  - Portability: errors source map needs to be kept up to date through different
  iterations of a program;
- Error message not returned directly in the Algod API response.

## Security Considerations

> Not applicable.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via <a href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">CCO</a>.
