---
arc: 23
title: Sharing Application's information
description: Append informations to the compiled application's bytes
author: Stéphane Barroso (@sudoweezy)
discussions-to: https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/issues/80
status: Draft
type: Meta
created: 2023-01-11
---

## Abstract

The following document introduces a convention for appending information to the compiled application's bytes. 
The goal of this convention is to standardize the process of verifying and interacting with smart contracts. The encoded byte string is `arc23` followed by the length of the CID representing a folder of files & the CID itself.

## Specification

The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as described in <a href="https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt">RFC-2119</a>.

> Comments like this are non-normative.

### CID of the Application Information
The <a href="https://github.com/multiformats/cid">CID</a> allows to access the corresponding files using <a href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/">IPFS</a>.

The CID **MUST**:
* Represent a folder of files
* Be a version V1 CID
* Use SHA-256 hash algorithm

### Files containing Application Information
Files should be named without upper case.
The minimum requirement for this ARC is a folder containing a file `contract.json` representing the contract metadata (as described in [ARC-4](arc-0004.md)), and as extended by future potential ARCs).

The application (in Python, TealRb ... ) **MAY** be added with the name `application` followed by the extension: (eg:  `application.py` for Python/Beaker).

The compiled versions of approval and clear program in teal **MAY** be added too with the names `approval.teal` & `clear.teal`

### Encoding
The encoded byte string is `arc23` concatenated to the bytes of the CID.

<a href="https://github.com/multiformats/multibase">Multibase character</a>

eg: for the example stored in `/asset/arc-0023/Folder`, 
`arc23 bafybeibm6rgofb2jn6iibyo67vchj6r3s3v3xkho7xkydlhy7inalysxxa`
`bafybeibm6rgofb2jn6iibyo67vchj6r3s3v3xkho7xkydlhy7inalysxxa` correspond to this Folder: `../assets/arc-0023/Folder`. It can be obtained with the command `ipfs add --cid-version=1 Folder/*  -q -w| tail -1`
> This command will pin the file to your local ipfs node and will be accessible if your node is online.

Otherwise, if there is more than one file, the CID must correspond to a folder of files. The ABI **MUST** be accessible by querying and IPFS node with `{cid}/contract.json`
eg:`bafybeibm6rgofb2jn6iibyo67vchj6r3s3v3xkho7xkydlhy7inalysxxa/contract.json`.

As the CID is always a V1 CID w/ SHA256, it is always encoded as (in hexadecimal):
0x2601296172633233 followed by 36 bytes of the CID
(0x26 is the bytecblock opcode, 0x01 is the number of []byte strings, 0x29 is the length = 41 bytes, 0x6172633233 is hexadecimal of `arc23`)

### Use in development
In development, it may be preferable to not publish the application information on IPFS.
> Using the `ipfs add ` with the option `-n` allow to obtain the CID without pinning the file.

Tools that need these information (such as local block explorer) can request this information as a .zip or .tar.gz containing at the root all the required files.

### Including the encoded information to the program
The encoded byte is appended to the compiled application as a <a href="https://developer.algorand.org/docs/get-details/dapps/avm/teal/opcodes/#bytecblock-bytes">bytecblock</a> containing 1-byte constant which is the encoded object.
> The reason to use `bytecblock` is that adding a `bytecblock` opcode at the end of a TEAL program does not change the semantics of the program, as long as opcodes are correctly aligned, there is no jump after the last position (that would make the program fail without `bytecblock`), and there is enough space left to add the opcode.
The size of the compiled application + the bytecblock should be, at most, the maximum size of a compiled application according to the latest consensus parameters supported by the compiler.


## Rationale
By appending the IPFS CID of the folder containing information about the Application, any user with access to the blockchain could easily verify the Application and the ABI of the Application and interact with it.

## Reference Implementation
The following codes are not audited and are only here for information purposes.

Here is an example of a python script that can generate the hash and append it to the compiled application, according this ARC:
[main.py](../assets/arc-0023/main.py).

A Folder containing: 
- example of the application [application.py](../assets/arc-0023/Folder/application.py).
- example of the Abi that follow [ARC-4](arc-0004.md) [contract.json](../assets/arc-0023/Folder/contract.json).


Files are accessible through followings IPFS command:
```console
$ ipfs cat bafybeibm6rgofb2jn6iibyo67vchj6r3s3v3xkho7xkydlhy7inalysxxa/contract.json
$ ipfs cat bafybeibm6rgofb2jn6iibyo67vchj6r3s3v3xkho7xkydlhy7inalysxxa/application.py
```

## Security Considerations
CIDs are unique; however, related files **MUST** be checked to ensure that the application conforms. 
An `arc-23` CID added at the end of an application is here to share information, not proof of anything.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via <a href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">CCO</a>.