---
arc: 37
title: Integration of xGov Process
description: Integration of xGov Process
author: Stéphane Barroso (@SudoWeezy)
discussions-to: https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/issues/204
status: Draft
type: Informational
created: 2023-06-01
---

## Abstract

This ARC aims to explain how the xGov process can be integrated within dApps.

## Motivation

By leveraging the xGov decentralization, it can improve the overall efficiency of this initivative.

## Specification
The key words "**MUST**", "**MUST NOT**", "**REQUIRED**", "**SHALL**", "**SHALL NOT**", "**SHOULD**", "**SHOULD NOT**", "**RECOMMENDED**", "**MAY**", and "**OPTIONAL**" in this document are to be interpreted as described in <a href="https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt">RFC-2119</a>.

### How to register

The registration process for the xGov integration will involve the following steps:

1. Visit the xGov registration portal.
2. Provide necessary information, including name, email address, and organization details.
3. Complete the identity verification process, which may involve email confirmation or other authentication mechanisms.
4. Once verified, the participant will receive a unique identifier or access token associated with their account.

#### How to find the xGov Escrow address

The xGox Escrow address can bes extraced by using this endpoint: `https://governance.algorand.foundation/api/periods/active/`.

```json
{
  ...
  "xgov_escrow_address": "string",
  ...
}
```

#### Registration
Governors should specify the xGov-related fields. Specifically, governors can sign up to be xGovs by designating as beneficiary the xGov escrow address (that changes from one governance period to the next). They can also designate an xGov-controller address that would participate on their behalf in xGov votes, via the optional parameter "xGv":"aaa". Namely the Notes field has the form

af/gov1:j{"com":nnn,"mmm1":nnn1,"mmm2":nnn2,"bnf":"XYZ","xGv":"ABC"}
where:

"com":nnn is the Algo commitment;
"mmm":nnn is a commitment for LP-token with asset-ID mmm;
"bnf":"XYZ" designates the address "XYZ" as the recipient of rewards ("XYZ" must equal the xGov escrow in order to sign up as an xGov);
The optional "xGv":"ABC" designates address "ABC" as the xGov-controller of this xGov account.

#### Goal example

goal clerk send -a 0 -f ALDJ4R2L2PNDGQFSP4LZY4HATIFKZVOKTBKHDGI2PKAFZJSWC4L3UY5HN4 -t RFKCBRTPO76KTY7KSJ3HVWCH5HLBPNBHQYDC52QH3VRS2KIM7N56AS44M4 -n 

‘af/gov1:j{“com”:1000000,“12345":2,“67890”:30,“bnf”:“DRWUX3L5EW7NAYCFL3NWGDXX4YC6Y6NR2XVYIC6UNOZUUU2ERQEAJHOH4M”,“xGv”:“ALDJ4R2L2PNDGQFSP4LZY4HATIFKZVOKTBKHDGI2PKAFZJSWC4L3UY5HN4”}’


### How to Interact with the Voting Application
#### How to get the Application ID

#### ABI

The ABI is available <a href="https://github.com/algorandfoundation/nft_voting_tool/blob/main/src/algorand/smart_contracts/artifacts/VotingRoundApp/contract.json">here </a>.

## Rationale
The integration of the xGov process will significantly streamline the governance procedures within our organization. By providing a user-friendly registration process and seamless interaction with the Vote Application, we can ensure active participation and engagement from all stakeholders. This integration aligns with our goal of enhancing transparency, efficiency, and inclusiveness in the decision-making process.


## Backwards Compatibility
None

## Reference Implementation


## Security Considerations
To ensure the security of the xGov integration, appropriate measures will be implemented, including:

1. Secure transmission of data during registration and voting processes.
2. Robust identity verification mechanisms to prevent unauthorized access.
3. Regular security audits and updates to address potential vulnerabilities.
4. Compliance with relevant data protection and privacy regulations.


## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via <a href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">CCO</a>.
